#######################
What's new in Omeka 2.2
#######################

==========
Shortcodes
==========

Omeka 2.2 adds support for shortcodes, allowing users to embed complex content
into free-text fields with a simple syntax. You can read more about
using shortcodes `on the Omeka Codex <http://omeka.org/codex/Shortcodes>`_ or
about supporting shortcodes in your own add-ons in the new tutorial
:doc:`/Tutorials/shortcodes`.

===============================
Pluggable Derivative Strategies
===============================

The file derivative process is refactored so administrators can switch between
different strategies to change how the file derivatives (thumbnails) are
created. Strategies can also take in options from the configuration file to
change their behavior without requiring a completely new strategy.

Read the new tutorial :doc:`/Tutorials/derivativeStrategies` for more information.

====================
Representative Files
====================

Omeka 2.2 adds a new and generalized system for using Files for representing
records beyond just Items. This system allows Omeka to display thumbnails in
places like the sitewide search that deal with multiple record types at the
same time.

Read the new tutorial :doc:`/Tutorials/representativeFiles` for more information.

========================================
Extensible fallback thumbnails for Files
========================================

Omeka 2.2 expands from the single fallback image for Files (the "blank page" icon)
to allow different fallbacks for every MIME type or family of MIME types. Omeka 2.2
itself adds new specific icons for audio, video, and images, and plugins can also
add new fallbacks for specific filetypes.

Read the new tutorial :doc:`/Tutorials/fallbackThumbnails` for more information.

=======
Classes
=======

* :php:class:`Omeka_File_Derivative_AbstractStrategy`
* :php:class:`Omeka_File_Derivative_Creator`
* :php:class:`Omeka_File_Derivative_Strategy_ExternalImageMagick`
* :php:class:`Omeka_File_Derivative_Strategy_Imagick`
* :php:class:`Omeka_Form_Element_Input`
* :php:class:`Omeka_Validate_HexColor`
* :php:class:`Omeka_View_Helper_FormInput`
* :php:class:`Omeka_View_Helper_Shortcodes`
* Removed :php:class:`!Omeka_File_Derivative_Image_Creator`

==========
Interfaces
==========

* :php:interface:`Omeka_File_Derivative_StrategyInterface`

=======
Methods
=======

* :php:meth:`Omeka_Record_AbstractRecord::getFile`

=========
Functions
=========

* :php:func:`add_file_fallback_image`
* :php:func:`add_shortcode`
* :php:func:`record_image`
* :php:func:`recent_items`

=====
Hooks
=====

* :doc:`admin_users_panel_buttons </Reference/hooks/admin_<type>_panel_buttons>`

=======
Filters
=======

* :doc:`/Reference/filters/admin_files_form_tabs`
* :doc:`/Reference/filters/admin_navigation_users`
